welcome back again everyone so happy you
made time for me Laszlo Montgomery here
with part three of this little chp
overview of the warlord era in China
1916 to 1928 thanks everyone who have
signed up and contributed to my patreon
page
that's at patreon.com slash china
history podcast you too can join this
growing an elite group of chp listeners
who get all the inside poop on
everything that's coming up on the CHP
horizon plus a regular supply of juicy
and revealing stories that I dish up
from my past shilling for Chinese
manufacturers patreon.com slash China
history podcast we left off last episode
in the year 1916 with the death of you
and shirk I at such a time as this and
China couldn't have come at a more
inopportune time World War one was still
raging in Europe the foreign powers
Great Britain France Germany in the
United States were all tied up dealing
with this up till that time most
terrible of all wars although Japan
wasn't exactly given a free hand and
shine are they sure we're starting to
act like they had won at this critical
juncture in history when China could
have gotten things together and use the
events of World War one to their
advantage things just went from bad to
worse and for the next 12 years a lot of
suffering is gonna be felt in China
cities towns and villages let's look at
what happened in China immediately
following the death of un shirk I the
men who first tried to step into your
hands large sized shoes were Duan cheer
a and fungo Jong I thought we could hold
these two up to the light and use Duan &
Fung as prisms to recount the events
that unfolded in the summer of 1916 and
into 1917 over on the European continent
as yen shirk I was laid to rest the
Battle of their doom was happening in
northeast France about three hundred
thousand
oops died in that battle these new
weapons and armaments that had emerged
at the dawn of the 20th century were
proving to be frightfully devastating
there will be quite a demand in China
for a lot of these weapons of war after
the Treaty of airside paunchy ray was
born and raised in the capital of Anhui
province Huff a he remained associated
with this province throughout his life
and career he had a halfway decent
pedigree
having a grandfather who fought with li
hung-chang and his high army li
hung-chang by the way also born and
raised in hefei anhui province was
always the central power base of Tuan
cheer a but as we'll see he also served
in a number of positions and the
Republic of China government almost
every northern warlord I'm gonna mention
from here on out got their start in some
shape or form due to their relationship
with you and sure Kai dawnchere a and
fun gwagyeong were no exception they
were both direct beneficiaries of your
ends rise to the top of the political
and military food chains in China
like I said Duan came from this military
family and he went straight into a
military career by way of the Tenjin
Military Academy one of the many of such
kinds of institutions put in place by li
hung-chang
this one in 1885 in his efforts to
modernize and organize China's military
in the course of the early part of Duan
she raised career in Shandong he got
himself noticed by li hung-chang
Lee sent one to Germany for two years to
go learn from the best for military
science Germany and Japan were the two
top places at the end of the 19th
century for an aspiring Chinese
militarist to learn a thing or two
duan came back to china went straight
into the bay yang military organization
and made his way up to the rank of
military commander in your ensure Kai's
personal pet project
new army you recall the new army from
part one after China's disastrous
showing in the sino-japanese war the
building of this Xin Jun new army was
among the top priority military reform
efforts of the Ching dynasty Duan stood
right by your insurer Kai's side in
Shandong province during the Boxer
Rebellion UN was serving there as
provincial governor Duan shear a saw
action during this uprising that would
later prove so devastatingly costly to
China Duan shear a was then able to
parlay this feather in his cap into a
command of his own division in the Bayon
army then in 1906 things really began to
gel Ford won cheer a in these dying days
of the Ching the Ching shall mourn in
the mornin if you will
Duan was given a plum posting at the Bao
ting Military Academy in its day this
was the West Point of China that top
military training center founded by none
other than your insurer Chi this Bao
ting Military Academy served as the
model for the later Whampoa Military
Academy down in Guangzhou Jang
kai-shek's later rise to the top of the
ROC government - said to have started
it's the head guy at Whampoa and Chung
took a page out of one she raised
playbook later on when by using his
position as commandant at the Whampoa
Military Academy to incubate a sizeable
coterie of followers who would all play
central roles in the warlord years Duan
did the same thing while heading the Bao
ting Military Academy the on way click
as it came to be known really started to
take shape right around here Duan used
his positions to assemble quite an
impressive number of officers and loyal
supporters and your insurer Chi had
fortified his relationship with Duan
shear a by arranging a marriage between
Duan and his niece so you can see why
Duan cheer a as soon as your end dies
is the natural choice for capo de Cobo
of the de young military organization
duan continued to benefit from yen sure
Kai's rise he was appointed the military
governor of Hebei province and then came
the wall chung uprising and the shin-hye
revolution 1911 all discussed briefly
last episode in part 2 it wasn't all
roses between yin and duan after the
revolution and after the trauma of
agreeing on the first provisional
government for the ROC in 1912
duan was made Minister of War in you and
sure Kai's cabinet he still ran who Bay
and then starting from about here Yin
and Duan started to disagree on a number
of things and Duan shear a then I guess
he could say right about now using his
powerful cabinet position a Minister of
War sort of tries to become his own man
and come out from behind you ensure
Kai's shadow during your ends ill-fated
run for the Emperor ship he had sacked
Duan shear a as military governor down
at Hope a as well as from his position
as Minister of War your n also went to
the trouble to clean house and the Bey
young upper-echelon zuv any Duan shear a
allies that dawn had put in place but in
the end after his bid to make himself
Emperor fizzled you and sure Kai at the
swallow his pride and rely on Tuan shear
a to act as the mediator between himself
and the rest of the country who had all
lined up against him on this
ill-conceived idea then with UN's
passing his vice president Li Ren Hong
took over as president and Duan shear a
according to the terms of you ensure
Kai's will took over his premier the
Parliament that you ensure Kai had
dissolved in 1914 was put back together
by August 1916 Duan could hardly mask
his disappointment at leader and Hong
who in his role as president was trying
to govern rather than act
Dwan cheer a stooge so when she read
basically the same mindset this is one
time mentor your insurer kai as most
world leaders will generally concur it's
a lot easier to do your job in the
capacity of a dictator rather than
within the limitations of a democracy
and that's how I'd like to run things
from the top down and this included the
signing of the so-called nishihara loans
with Japan that came to haunt China the
Treaty of Versailles about 90 million
dollars in loans mostly to be utilized
by Tuan's
on clay cleek in exchange for a rather
free hand and railroad construction and
management in Shandong Manchuria and
Mongolia the hope was that the north and
south could reconcile and pick up where
they left off before you ensure kai
started becoming so autocratic but this
wasn't meant to be and squabbles
remained about what else sharing of
political power it was a serious back
then as it is today and China in the
post you ensure Kai period had one power
base in the north
led by this Bayon clique and in the
south led by the KMT
the Gua mean down the west of China I
won't get into that right now and not
only were the Bayon clique leaders
starting with Duan sheer a at
loggerheads with the KMT even within the
Bayon government itself things were not
terribly collegial before we discuss the
unwaged early rivalry let me introduce
Fung Wah Jang as I said fung-kwok john
was another un sure chi man who rose up
the ranks and like Duan cheer a got to
use the Bao ting Military Academy is a
breeding ground to groom his own
followers unlike Duan cheer a who came
from a military family the army was not
fun Kong's first choice for a career he
was a failed scholar who had taken the
path of the civil bureaucracy but he was
never able to pass the exam that might
have opened the door to that life for
him instead he
turn to the military and never look back
Fung Wah Chang was born and raised in
Hebei province which back then was known
as Cheerilee
you remember Cheerilee from part one he
was also very close to your insurer Kai
and had been part of that gang that
forced the Ching Emperor Puyi to
abdicate he had remained very loyal to
again sure Kai and played key roles
during the aftermath of the Wu Chun
uprising like - auntie Rae and everyone
else in China Fung lined up against you
and sure Kai when he tried to make
himself Emperor even his best friends
and closest allies would support him to
show he meant business funk what junk
had left the north and headed to the KMT
stronghold of Nanjing to fight in the
anti yen national protection war than I
mentioned last episode and now in 1917
Fung Wah Chung found himself serving as
vice president of the Republic of China
second-in-command of the president Lian
Hong Fung and Duan used their positions
of political and military power and
authority to stuff their offices with
loyal followers Fung coming from
Cheerilee in all hand selected officers
and staff who all came from that
province and - auntie Rae and on kwai
man put together an organization that
mostly came from on quay she can
probably guess which one headed that
your leak leak and which one the on wake
leak you had the umbrella bae yong cleek
organization formerly headed by you and
sure kai and then after he's gone Fung
and Duan split into two separate clicks
with two separate armies let me just
mention one more warlord from this
period I mentioned him last time in part
two this was Chung soon in 1917 was a
big year for this man known as both the
ma foo warlord and the pigtail general
among other
it's jongshin was actually a few years
older than you and shirk i and had
fought the sino-french war 1884 85 he
had come from nothing from a town just
west of nan Cheung in Shanxi province he
was called the my food general because
he had once worked as a mouthful a kind
of horse groom very humble beginnings
and as far as his being called the
pigtail general well that was the main
thing about jeong joon-hee was extremely
loyal to the Ching dynasty very ultra
conservative traditionalist through and
through in fact one of his early claims
to fame had been that he was the one who
escorted the Empress Dowager Tzu she and
her entourage to safety when they had to
flee the Forbidden City at the end of
the Boxer Rebellion so he was loyal to
the Ching and even after the Revolution
in 1911 refused to cut off his cue and
soldiers that were under his command
well he forbade them to cut off their
cues as well so despite the Republican
times they lived in Jang soon this
reactionary and dyed-in-the-wool
royalist he flew the flag in China his
chief defender of pre-revolutionary
values and institutions despite all this
he remained a staunch and reliable ally
of you and sure Chi and had served him
well at a few key moments particularly
as I said in crushing the KMT forces who
fought back during the second revolution
June to November 1913 I mentioned last
episode you may recall another one of
the ma foo Warlord's claims to fame
after Nanjing was taken Jung soon sat
back and allowed his troops to have
three days of looting and a whole lot
more throughout the city
he didn't line up with un sure Chi when
he did the whole emperor thing but he
remained neutral while everyone else on
the north and south had their knives out
yet think he would have backed your end
but Junction's loyalty was to the Ching
dynasty so he couldn't support your ends
bid for the Emperor's ship he was a
powerful millet
every man and had a lot of fighting
power so with your n out of the way
starting in 1916 zhang xuan had his own
ideas about what was best for china
fellow militarists of like mind formed
an association of provincial military
governors this became the main voice of
the warlords Jonghyun took the lead in
calling for the first of three
conferences to be held comprised of all
these generals and future warlords all
of these conferences were held in the
historic city of Xu Cho in northern
jung-soo right where it meets the
borders of on clay and Shandong the
first meeting was held on June 9th 1916
a few days after you and shirk I died
there were representatives from seven of
the northern provinces how to handle the
post you're an era was a topic of high
priority the second conference was held
on September 20th a few months later
this one was attended by representatives
from 12 provinces all the military top
brass in a moment of solidarity they all
agreed to form a grand alliance amongst
themselves and made chung chien the
great leader of the alliance the group
was comprised of all the deciders for
any key decision that required central
government approval these militarists
though it wasn't their place began to
speak out about which political leaders
selected to serve in the government were
suitable or not
then in January 1917 there was a third
Xu Zhuo conference held by the time of
this conference everyone was jumping
into the political arena the rift that
existed between dawncher a representing
the militarists and Lian Hong
representing the central government
started to grow the biggest bone of
contention at this post un shirk high
moment concern China's position on
declaring war on Germany and joining the
Allies or remaining neutral Lee un homme
wanted to stay out of
conflict Dwan cheer a with Japan
lobbying him like crazy was all for
declaring war on Germany this was the
most immediate cause for the current
political crisis in Republican China the
bay young leaders led by Tuan shear a
after dissolving Parliament on June 12
1917 were all huddled together in
Tianjin in June leaving Lee Grahn Hong
with a feeling of uncertainty I guess he
could say once Li Ren hong had gotten
wind of duan shira's perfidy and signing
the nishihara loans and opening up
china's front door and letting japan
inside so to speak
he canned duan his premier so that's
white wine was now hunkering down in
Tianjin with all his military allies
planning his response he was putting
lien homes feet to the fire forcing him
to see the light so with all these army
generals and commanders not too far away
from the capital rattling their sabers
Lee ran home recognizing that might
makes right invited Jung shin to come to
Beijing to broker a solution between his
government and the military leaders
lining up against him so I've told you a
few of the historic moments in jung
geun's life but this one really takes
the cake along with that whole business
of keeping his hair Manchu style
complete with cue and being a rather
colorful character when he got to
Beijing with his troops rather than do
what Lee your aunt Hong asked him to do
broke her a solution to the political
impasse he tried to restore the Ching
dynasty instead Jung Joon had not only
declared the restoration of the Ching as
part of the deal he called for the
return of all Qing Imperial institutions
he thought or was led to believe his
fellow Bey young military generals were
okay with this whole Qing restoration
thing but just like what you ain't sure
Kai and his maniacal dreams the support
the ma food general was counting on from
his fellow warlords wasn't
this Manchu restoration of 1917 lasted
July 1st to July 12th Paul Yi got to be
the last emperor not once but twice but
then right after chung chien pulled the
trigger on this restoration Duan Chi Ray
and his other Bey young allies started
making deals with Lee ran home obviously
under great duress and before you knew
it
Duan shear a was returned to the
government as premier and fellow Bey
young stalwart Fung Wah Chung was a
stalled as Acting President Lee ran home
was out
once everyone shook hands on this new
arrangement Duan on behalf of all his
military allies ordered troops to head
in the direction of Beijing mere moments
before Duan and Lee ran home were at
each other's throats
now duan and his allies were on the side
of the republic and they proceeded to
quickly quash this whole bad idea of a
ching restoration before it could ever
catch fire Chung soon ended up fleeing
with his troops and had to lay low for
the rest of his life he was pardoned in
1918 but you don't hear much of him
after that he died on 9/11 1923 so he
was marginalized early on in the warlord
era but sure left his mark and early roc
history here is where things start to
get real complicated if they weren't
complicated enough already things really
start to break down from this point
forward the central government of the
Republic of China was now it was nothing
more than the government of whichever
warlord seized and occupied beijing
whatever government officials and
politicians serving in beijing they've
remained puppets of the warlord toujours
you'll see between now and the final
buzzer Beijing is going to change
Angeles warlords contend for this most
important of cities and pretty much
after junctions big moment attempting to
restore the Ching dynasty everyone who
hadn't taken a side
get started taking sides in any warlords
and military governors and other parts
of China they didn't want to be part of
these Bayon generals and their puppet
state they just declared their province
independent and if the North wanted to
force them into unifying with their
government well they could come on down
and try and make them so this whole
Zhang Xin Manchu Ching restoration move
really kick the hornet's nest so to
speak the way everything ended up and
the immediate fallout it was sort of a
coup d'etat with that surely and on wake
leaks in control of things in the north
anyway I haven't even gotten started on
what was happening south of the Yangtze
they had plenty of warlords do then on
August 14th 1917 with Lee and Hong his
primary opposition out of the way
Duan Cheer a declared war on Germany in
Austria the Chinese labor Corps who we
looked at in episode CHP 207 had already
been serving in Europe for a year and a
month later after Dawn's declaration of
war down in Guangzhou Sun yat-sen
remember him he set up a rival Chinese
government it didn't get much
recognition but he continued to keep
that KMT flame alive down in the South
Fung Wah jiang made a sincere effort to
become a peacemaker between the northern
and southern governments unfortunately
he wasn't fated to live long and died in
Beijing in December 1919 this is gonna
shake things up and that surely cleek
that he led two warlords will emerge to
take over from fungo Cheung so you could
see how this warlord problem keeps
dividing and growing from un came Tuan
and Fung from funk aim to more warlords
who we'll look at next episode you ain't
sure chi duan shear a funcle' jung jong
shin these were all the first-generation
warlords the ones who occupied the stage
during that critical juncture in chinese
history when the revenue
was launched and the Ching dynasty fell
their solution to the setting up of a
new nation was always a military
solution and still up to now this whole
Republic of China idea had been an
abysmal failure so you could see why
when chung chien tried to restore the
Ching he actually had a lot of support
from a wide segment of the population
who had had enough with this failed
experiment in democracy and
constitutional government rather than
introduce what happens next why don't we
just say class dismissed a little early
today please refer to the terms that I
painstakingly put together for you each
episode go to the website at tea cup dot
media and click on the terms for this
episode tab every Chinese name mentioned
in this episode will be listed in pinyin
characters and English all for your
inconvenience that should help you a
little if you're drowning in all these
Chinese names once more with feeling
I hope you'll consider going to
patreon.com and join other CHP stalwarts
and admirers of this podcast show that
goes all out for you to bring you the
best in Chinese history if you can't
find patreon.com go to my website at tea
cup dot media and there's a link to the
patreon page right there ok
part four coming next time nothing's
really getting messy you won't want to
miss it
this is Lazlo Montgomery coming to you
from the Southland once again a Los
Angeles California and the Golden State
please join me next time won't you for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast